Blazor Hybrid/web shared assets via RCL (#26331)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/hybrid/class-libraries.md

```razor
@using SharedLibrary
@using SharedLibrary.Shared
@using SharedLibrary.Data
```

Place shared static assets in the RCL's `wwwroot` folder and update static asset paths in the app to use the following path format:

> :::no-loc text="_content/{PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}/{PATH}/{FILENAME}":::

Placeholders:

* `{PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}`: The package ID or assembly name of the RCL.
* `{PATH}`: Optional path within the RCL's `wwwroot` folder.
* `{FILENAME}`: The filename of the static asset.

The preceding path format is also used in the app for static assets supplied by a NuGet package added to the RCL.

For an RCL named `SharedLibrary` and using the minified Bootstrap stylesheet as an example:

> :::no-loc text="_content/SharedLibrary/css/bootstrap/bootstrap.min.css":::

For additional information on how to share static assets across projects, see the following articles:

* <xref:blazor/components/class-libraries>
* <xref:razor-pages/ui-class>

> The root `index.html` file is specific to the app and should remain in the Blazor Hybrid app or the Blazor WebAssembly app. Do ***not*** attempt to share the `index.html` file via an RCL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The root `index.html` file is typically specific to the app and should remain in the Blazor Hybrid app or the Blazor WebAssembly app, so it is typically not shared.
```

The root Razor Component (`App.razor` or `Main.razor`) can be shared, but often might need to be specific to the hosting app. For example, `App.razor` is different in the Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly project templates when authentication is enabled. You can add the [`AdditionalAssemblies` parameter](xref:blazor/fundamentals/routing#route-to-components-from-multiple-assemblies) to specify the location of any shared routable components, and you can specify a [shared default layout component for the router](xref:blazor/fundamentals/routing#route-templates) by type name.

## Provide code and services independent of hosting model

> When code must differ for across hosting models or target platforms, abstract the code as interfaces stored in the RCL and inject the service implementations in each project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When code must differ across hosting models or target platforms, abstract the code as interfaces stored in the RCL and inject the service implementations in each project.
```

* `{FILENAME}`: The filename of the static asset.

For an RCL named `SharedLibrary` and using the minified Bootstrap stylesheet as an example:

> :::no-loc text="_content/SharedLibrary/css/bootstrap/bootstrap.min.css":::

For additional information on how to share static assets across projects, see the following articles:

* <xref:blazor/components/class-libraries>
* <xref:razor-pages/ui-class>

The root `index.html` file is specific to the app and should remain in the Blazor Hybrid app.

The root Razor Component (`App.razor` or `Main.razor`) can be shared, but often might need to be specific to the hosting app. For example, `App.razor` is different in the Blazor Server and Blazor WebAssembly project templates when authentication is enabled for apps. You can add the [`AdditionalAssemblies` parameter](xref:blazor/fundamentals/routing#route-to-components-from-multiple-assemblies) to specify the location of any shared routable components, and you can specify a [shared default layout component for the router](xref:blazor/fundamentals/routing#route-templates) by type name.

## Provide code and services independent of hosting model

> When code must differ for across hosting models, abstract the code as interfaces and inject the service implementations into each project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When code must differ for across hosting models or target platforms, abstract the code as interfaces and inject the service implementations into each project.
```

> ### Example 1

Reviewer: This first example shows how to deal with multiple target platforms. I think it might be simpler to start with the weather forecast service example, which shows how to deal with different hosting models, and then show the more complicated example of dealing with multiple target platforms.

I believe the Platforms folder convention is also specific to .NET MAUI class libraries that have UseMaui set to true in the project. I don't think we support setting UseMaui to true in an RCL. So you'd need to move the platform specific service implementations into a separate .NET MAUI class library.

This still leaves the question of how to package and distribute the Blazor components with the platform specific implementations. I'm not sure what we should recommend for that. @Eilon @javiercn Thoughts?

Author: > start with the weather forecast service example

**_Done!_** :+1:

The rest of your remarks are cryptic to me, so I'll wait for more feedback on the exact actions to take.

Reviewer: I talked this over with @SteveSandersonMS and we agreed to hold off on diving into the complexity of dealing with platform specific logic for now. At this point I think we should remove the 2nd example and just have the first weather forecast example.I would also like to change the weather forecast example to recommend that the `IWeatherForecastService` implementations go into the corresponding Blazor apps instead of in the RCL.

Author: **_Updates made._** ... I held the 2nd example in place in case it's used later (or it's the basis of something used later).

This article builds on the general concepts found in the following articles:

* <xref:blazor/components/class-libraries>
* <xref:razor-pages/ui-class>

The examples in this article share assets between a Blazor Server app and a .NET MAUI Blazor app in the same solution:

* Although a Blazor Server app is used in examples and described by the text as the "web" client, the guidance applies equally to Blazor WebAssembly apps.
* The example projects are in the same solution, but an RCL can supply shared assets to projects outside of the same solution.
* The RCL example is added as a project to the solution, but any RCL can be published as a NuGet package. A NuGet package can supply shared assets to web and native client projects.
* The order that the projects are created isn't important. However, projects that rely on an RCL for assets must create a project reference to the RCL *after* the RCL is created.
* The following project names are used for the projects in this article, which become part of namespace and assembly references in the examples:
  * RCL: `SharedLibrary`

>   * Blazor Hybrid (.NET MAUI Blazor): `BlazorNative`

Reviewer: We've used "Blazor Native" in the past to refer to using Blazor and Razor syntax to build native UI, so there's a small potential for confusion here. Could we call the Blazor Hybrid app "MauiBlazorApp" or "BlazorHybridApp" instead?

  * Blazor Server: `BlazorWeb`

For guidance on creating an RCL, see <xref:blazor/components/class-libraries>. Optionally, access the additional guidance on RCLs that apply broadly to ASP.NET Core apps in <xref:razor-pages/ui-class>.

> ## Advanced sample app

Reviewer: Or we could just not call the .NET Podcasts sample "advanced" and leave it here.

For an advanced example of the scenarios described in this article, see the .NET Podcasts sample app:

* [GitHub repository (`microsoft/dotnet-podcasts`)](https://github.com/microsoft/dotnet-podcasts)
* [Running sample app (Azure Container Apps Service)](https://dotnetpodcasts.azurewebsites.net/)

The .NET Podcasts app showcases the following technologies:

* [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet)
* [ASP.NET Core](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/aspnet)
* [Blazor](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/aspnet/web-apps/blazor)
* [.NET MAUI](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/maui)
* [Azure Container Apps](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/container-apps/)
* [Orleans](/dotnet/orleans/overview)

> ## Share web UI Razor components, code, and static assets

Author: If we're cutting so much of the step-by-step, I'm concerned about not placing the sample app at `dotnet/blazor-samples`. If a future release has a project template for this, we'd merely drop the sample from that release version in the samples repo and from the doc. Another thing is that if .NET MAUI with Blazor Server is going to be the most common use case, the sample app could be quite speedy 🏃 for devs as a starting point. Otherwise, it takes like ... mmmm 🤔 .... it could take an hour for someone to build from scratch.

* [`Index`](xref:blazor/project-structure)
* [`App`](xref:blazor/project-structure)
* [`MainLayout`](xref:blazor/components/layouts#mainlayout-component)
* [`NavMenu`](xref:blazor/fundamentals/routing#navlink-and-navmenu-components)

The Blazor Server and Blazor Hybrid projects are provided a project reference to the RCL. Use Visual Studio's built-in **Add** > **Project Reference** gesture, the .NET CLI's [`dotnet add reference` command](/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-add-reference), or manually add the following to the project file:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <ProjectReference Include="{PATH TO RCL}" />
</ItemGroup>
```

The `{PATH TO RCL}` placeholder is the relative path to the RCL project from either the .NET MAUI Blazor or Blazor Server projects. For an RCL named `SharedLibrary` with a relative path:

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <ProjectReference Include="..\SharedLibrary\SharedLibrary.csproj" />
</ItemGroup>
```

> Create a `Pages` folder in the RCL project if it doesn't exist. Place `Index.razor` in the `Pages` folder. You can move the existing `Index.razor` file from the `Pages` folder of the Blazor Server app to the RCL. If the Blazor Hybrid app is a .NET MAUI Blazor app, you can also delete the `Pages/Index.razor` file in the .NET MAUI Blazor project.

Reviewer: This is the point where the text really starts to get specific to the project template content. I'd like to avoid having all this project template specific content if possible. Many of these details of the Blazor project templates are subject to change.

  ```diff
  - @using {BLAZOR SERVER ASSEMBLY}.Shared
  + @using {RCL PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}
  + @using {RCL PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}.Shared
  ```

For example:

```razor
...
@using SharedLibrary
@using SharedLibrary.Shared
```

Update or add the namespace of the RCL in the Blazor Hybrid's `_Imports.razor` file:

* If the Blazor Hybrid app's `Shared` folder remains in the app because the project exclusively uses remaining components in the folder, then *add* the RCL's `Shared` folder namespace to the file, along with adding the RCL's namespace:

  ```diff
  + @using {RCL PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}
  + @using {RCL PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}.Shared
  ```

* If the Blazor Hybrid app's `Shared` folder is empty because all of the assets are moved to the RCL, *update* the `Shared` folder namespace to the RCL's `Shared` folder namespace, along with adding the RCL's namespace:

  ```diff
  - @using {BLAZOR HYBRID ASSEMBLY}.Shared
  + @using {RCL PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}
  + @using {RCL PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}.Shared
  ```

For example:

```razor
...
@using SharedLibrary
@using SharedLibrary.Shared
```

> Place additional shared code and static assets in the RCL:

Reviewer: The content in this section about handling static web assets is good. It just needs a few tweaks to make it generic and not specific to the project templates.

  The Blazor Server app's `Pages/_Layout.cshtml` file and the Blazor Hybrid app's `wwwroot/index.html` file are updated to access these assets from the RCL. Remove the existing entries in the files for the local Bootstrap and stylesheet assets, as they're no longer in the individual apps after they're moved to the RCL.

  ```html
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="_content/{PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}/css/bootstrap/bootstrap.min.css" />
  <link href="_content/{PACKAGE ID/ASSEMBLY}/css/app.css" rel="stylesheet" />
  ```

  For an RCL named `SharedLibrary`:

  ```html
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="_content/SharedLibrary/css/bootstrap/bootstrap.min.css" />
  <link href="_content/SharedLibrary/css/app.css" rel="stylesheet" />
  ```

  > [!NOTE]
  > In a Blazor WebAssembly app, the preceding `<link>` tags are in the `wwwroot/index.html` file.

> * Place additional shared components and C# code into the RCL.

Reviewer: While the weather forecast service in the Blazor project templates is the same for Blazor Server and Blazor Hybrid scenarios, it's different for Blazor WebAssembly, which makes an HTTP request for the data. Since this content is very project template specific and you already have a section below on dealing with services that are hosting model specific, I think this content can be removed.

  The Blazor Server and the Blazor Hybrid service registrations register the same service when the RCL provides a common service. In both .NET MAUI Blazor's `MauiProgram.cs` and Blazor Server's `Program.cs`, add the namespace for the RCL's `Data` folder assets and register the RCL's `WeatherForecastService`:

  ```csharp
  using SharedLibrary.Data;

  ...

  builder.Services.AddSingleton<WeatherForecastService>();
  ```

  > [!NOTE]
  > Windows Forms Blazor projects register services in `Form1`'s contstructor (`Form1.cs`). WPF Blazor projects register services in `MainWindow`'s constructor (`MainWindow.xaml`).

  Remove the `Data` folder namespace in the Blazor Hybrid and Blazor Server projects:

  ```diff
  - using BlazorNative.Data;
  ```

  ```diff
  - using BlazorWeb.Data;
  ```

  For additinal information on how to share static assets across projects, see the following articles:

  * <xref:blazor/components/class-libraries>
  * <xref:razor-pages/ui-class>

> ## Provide code and services independent of hosting model

Reviewer: Services let you abstract away details of the Blazor hosting model and also platform specific details. The `ICustomService` example does a good job of showing how to deal with platform specific functionality (similar to the `INativeAudioService` usage in the .NET Podcasts app). I think it would also be good to show how to deal with abstracting away Blazor hosting model specific concerns. For example, you could show abstracting different weather forecast service implementations, one that makes an HTTP request for Blazor WebAssembly and Blazor Hybrid, and one that accesses the data "directly" for Blazor Server.

</ItemGroup>
```

In `Program.cs`, the project registers the custom service, `SharedLibrary.Web.CustomService`:

```csharp
builder.Services.AddSingleton<SharedLibrary.Interfaces.ICustomService, 
    SharedLibrary.Web.CustomService>();
```

A component can inject the `CustomService` and call the `GetMessage` method. Add the following `TestCustomService` component to the shared `Pages` folder of the RCL.

`Pages/TestCustomService.razor` in the RCL:

```razor
@page "/test-custom-service"
@using SharedLibrary.Interfaces;
@inject ICustomService CustomService

<PageTitle>Test Service</PageTitle>

<h3>Test Service</h3>

<p>
    <button class="btn btn-primary" @onclick="GetMessage">Get Message</button>
</p>

<p>
    @message
</p>

@code {
    private string message = string.Empty;

    private void GetMessage()
    {
        message = CustomService.GetMessage();
    }
}
```

Add navigation for the `TestCustomService` component.

In the `Shared/NavMenu.razor` file of the RCL:

```razor
<div class="nav-item px-3">
    <NavLink class="nav-link" href="test-custom-service">
        <span class="oi oi-list-rich" aria-hidden="true"></span> Test service
    </NavLink>
</div>
```

> Regardless of where a C# class resides, a class can inject the `CustomService` and call `LogMessage`:

Author: btw --- This is a simple miss from prior updates. My first example used logging, so the method was `LogMessage`. I'll update this line to say `GetMessage` on my next commit (Tuesday morning).

For guidance on creating an RCL, see <xref:blazor/components/class-libraries>. Optionally, access the additional guidance on RCLs that apply broadly to ASP.NET Core apps in <xref:razor-pages/ui-class>.

:::moniker range="= aspnetcore-6.0"

## Target framework

> To publish a WPF or Windows Forms project with a Razor class library (RCL) in ASP.NET Core 6.0, the RCL must have the [Target Framework Moniker (TFM)](/dotnet/standard/frameworks) set to `net6.0;net6.0-windows`.

Reviewer 2: 1. Is this true for all publishing types, or just ClickOnce?
2. What does it mean "in ASP.NET Core 6.0"?
3. Should it just say to _add_ `net6.0-windows`? Presumably there could already be some other various TFMs there, which might be fine?

cc @TanayParikh

Author: Made an update, but I rely upon @TanayParikh to indicate if they're sane changes. The current bit is now ...

> :::moniker range="= aspnetcore-6.0"
>
> \#\# Target framework
>
> To publish a WPF or Windows Forms project with a Razor class library (RCL) in .NET 6.0, the RCL must target \`net6.0-windows\`.
>
> Example:
>
> \`\`\`xml
> \<TargetFrameworks>net6.0;net6.0-windows</TargetFrameworks>
> \`\`\`
>
> For more information, see \[Target frameworks in SDK-style projects](/dotnet/standard/frameworks).
>
> :::moniker-end

Reviewer 3: > Is this true for all publishing types, or just ClickOnce?

I believe this is for ClickOnce specifically, folder publishing should work without this change. 

> What does it mean "in ASP.NET Core 6.0"?
> To publish a WPF or Windows Forms project with a Razor class library (RCL) in .NET 6,

To publish a Blazor Hybrid WPF or Windows Forms project with a Razor class library (RCL) in .NET 6, the RCL...

> Should it just say to add net6.0-windows? Presumably there could already be some other various TFMs there, which might be fine?
> the RCL must target `net6.0-windows` in addition to `net6.0`.

Yep, I think that makes sense, thanks!

Author: Latest commit includes the ClickOnce piece with cross-links to ClickOnce guidance.
